Linux  is an open source operating system (OS).
   An operating system is the software that directly manages a system's hardware and resources, like CPU, memory, and storage.
Linux is one of the most popular and widely used Kernel, and it is the backbone of popular operating systems like Debian, Knoppix, Ubuntu, and Fedora

Benefits:
-->It offers a free operating system.
-->Being open-source, anyone with programming knowledge can modify it
-->Once you have Linux installed you no longer need an antivirus! Linux is a highly secure system.so, there is a global development community constantly looking at ways to enhance its security. With each upgrade, the OS becomes more secure and robust
-->Linux freeware is the OS of choice for Server environments due to its stability and reliability (Mega-companies like Amazon, Facebook, and Google use Linux for their Servers). A Linux based server could run non-stop without a reboot for years on end.

Commands
  A shell is a command interpreter that exposes an interface to the user to work with the underlying operating system. 
  It allows you to execute operations using text and commands, and it provides users advanced features like being able to create scripts.
  shells let you perform things in a more optimized way than a GUI (Graphical User Interface) could ever possibly let you do. 
  Command line tools can offer many different configuration options without being too complex to use.

1.mkdir command
   Use mkdir command to make a new directory — if you type mkdir Music it will create a directory called Music.

2. cd command
  To navigate through the Linux files and directories, use the cd command. It requires either the full path or the name of the directory, depending on the current working directory that you’re in.

3. vi command
  its used to create & edit the new(or)old file

4. cat command
cat (short for concatenate) is one of the most frequently used commands in Linux. It is used to list the contents of a file on the standard output (sdout). To run this command, type cat followed by the file’s name and its extension. For instance: cat file.txt.

5. pwd command
   Use the pwd command to find out the path of the current working directory (folder) you’re in. The command will return an absolute (full) path, which is basically a path of all the directories that starts with a forward slash (/). An example of an absolute path is /home/username.

6. cd .. (with two dots) to return back to the dirctory

7. top command
    As a terminal equivalent to Task Manager in Windows, the top command will display a list of running processes and how much CPU each process uses. It’s very useful to monitor system resource usage, especially knowing which process needs to be terminated because it consumes too many resources.

8. ls command
  The ls command is used to view the contents of a directory. By default, this command will display the contents of your current working directory.
  If you want to see the content of other directories, type ls and then the directory’s path. For example, enter ls /home/username/Documents to view the content of Documents.

9. mv command
   The primary use of the mv command is to move files, although it can also be used to rename files.
   The arguments in mv are similar to the cp command. You need to type mv, the file’s name, and the destination’s directory. For example: mv file.txt /home/username/Documents.

   To rename files, the Linux command is mv oldname.ext newname.ext

10. cp command
   Use the cp command to copy files from the current directory to a different directory. For instance, the command cp scenery.jpg /home/username/Pictures would create a copy of scenery.jpg (from your current directory) into the Pictures directory.


11. touch command
   The touch command allows you to create a blank new file through the Linux command line. As an example, enter touch /home/username/Documents/Web.html to create an HTML file entitled Web under the Documents directory.

12. sudo command
   Short for “SuperUser Do”, this command enables you to perform tasks that require administrative or root permissions. However, it is not advisable to use this command for daily use because it might be easy for an error to occur if you did something wrong.

13. echo command
   This command is used to move some data into a file. For example, if you want to add the text, “Hello, my name is John” into a file called name.txt, you would type echo Hello, my name is John >> name.txt

14. clear command -->we using in b/w any commands depends situation 
    Use the clear command to clean out the terminal if it is getting cluttered with too many past commands.
    we using in b/w any commands depends situation 







