SERVER-
------
A server in its most basic form: Is a computer device that runs in a program or process dedicated to running one or more server programs.
These service programs range in variety depending on what the server is designed for like LAN,WAN,MAN
Using internet technologies, devices are able to establish a connection to a server to access it and make use of the resources or programs on the servers.

CLIENT-
------
Client - A system that uses remote services from a server.
The main operations of the client system are listed below:
Managing the user interface.
Accepts and checks the syntax of user inputs

Operating System(OS) configuration classified into two types,
*Work group
*Domain

WORK GROUP-
----------
All computers are peers; no computer has control over another computer. Each computer has a set of user accounts. To use any computer in the workgroup, you must have an account on that computer
There are typically no more than ten to twenty computers
All computers must be on the same local network or subnet

DOMAIN-
------
One or more computers are servers. Network administrators use servers to control the security and permissions for all computers on the domain.
This makes it easy to make changes because the changes are automatically made to all computers.
If you have a user account on the domain, you can log on to any computer on the domain without needing an account on that computer.
There can be hundreds or thousands of computers. The computers can be on different local networks

DNS-
---
The Domain Name System (DNS) turns domain names into IP addresses, which browsers use to load internet pages. 
Every device connected to the internet has its own IP address, which is used by other devices to locate the device.
hostname.domainname
HOST NAME RESOLUTION
FQDN IP Address, IP Address FQDN     
FQDN-fully qualified domain name
forward lookup query     reverse  lookup query				         
EXAMPLE
www.instagram.com www.=host , instagram.com=domain name

Zone:
----
It is a administrative space which allows for a control of DNS components
Forward loopback Query would be answered by using Forward Loopback Zone (FLZ)
Reverse loopback Query would be answered by using Reverse  Loopback Zone (RLZ)

PORT NUMBER-
-----------
Port number is the part of the addressing information used to identify the senders and receivers of messages in computer networking. 
Different port numbers are used to determine what protocol incoming traffic should be directed to.

SOME OF THE PORT NUMBERS:
SSH(SECURE SHELL)                   -    22
SMTP(SIMPLE MAIL TRANSFER PROTOCOL) -    25
DNS(DOMAIN NAME SYSTEM)             -    53
HTTP(HYPER TEXT TRANSFER PROTOCOL)  -    80
HTTPS(Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure) - 443
POP3(POST OFFICE PROTOCOL)          -    110
RDP(REMOTE DECKTOP PROTOCOL)        -    3389

TCP- Transfer Control Protocol:
---
Connection oriented protocol That Establish a connection before transmitting data and should close the connection after transmitting the data.

UDP - User Datagram Protocol:
---
Communications protocol that is primarily used for establishing low-latency and loss-tolerating connections between applications.


